# RoadNetwork

This is the parent and controller of the road generation. When added to the scene, two nodes (segments and points) are added as children to contain the RoadPoints placed by a user, and the RoadSegments generated by the addon.


## Settings

**Script Variables**

- **auto_refresh**: If enabled, auto update road meshes in the viewport, including during transforms.
- **material_resource**: The material to add to the RoadSegment meshes
- **density**: Determines the distance in meters between loopcuts of a RoadSegment mesh. A lower number means a higher poly mesh and smoother curves. See `bake_internal`  described [here](https://docs.godotengine.org/en/stable/classes/class_curve3d.html#property-descriptions).
- **use_lowpoly_preview**: If enabled, will use lower density roads in viewport while a transform is in progress. The full poly mesh will be used as soon as the placement is complete.
- **points**: Nodepath reference to where to place added RoadPoints, should be left as a child of the RoadNetwork
- **segments**: Nodepath reference to where to place generated RoadSegments, should be left as a child of the RoadNetwork
- **debug_prior**: Internal debugging tool to snap a curve object to 3D view of selection, may be removed in the future
- **debug_next**: Internal debugging tool to snap a curve object to 3D view of selection, may be removed in the future
- **generate_ai_lanes**: Create 3D paths representing each individual lane in a road segment, so that traffic AI can use this to follow very specific paths.
- **debug**: Used to visualize AI lanes if generated (will be low performance using immediate geometry)
